>>Dr. Lorraine Day did
something most people
haven't had the courage to do.
When diagnosed with
cancer, she decided
to heal herself without the
aid of the medical community.
What makes this story
particularly interesting
is that she herself is a highly
respected orthopedic surgeon.
Instead, after 30
years as an agnostic,
she turned to belief and an
ancient recipe for health
from the Old Testament
after she learned
that the cancer had spread.
>>So let's start a little
bit with your own story
and how you ended up
where you are today.
And some of it
was pretty trying,
physically and otherwise.
>>Well, that's right.
I developed cancer in 1992
with a very small lump.
It was about half the size
of an almond or even smaller.
And it just bothered me
when I put my seat belt on.
And I didn't think
it was cancer,
because it was high
up on my chest.
And the plastic surgeon that
did the biopsy at Loma Linda
University, he didn't think
it was cancer, either.
And I had it done under local.
But then he called
me a few days later
and said that not only
did I have cancer,
but there were
not clear margins.
It had already spread
into my chest wall.
So I had another biopsy.
At that time, I actually
thought you can cut cancer out.
Now I know you cannot cut cancer
out and get rid of it that way,
because all the factors that
allowed the cancer to develop
are still present in your
body unless you change the way
you're eating and living and
everything about your life.
And so I had another
biopsy done down
at Scripps Hospital in La Jolla.
It's near San Diego.
And I let them put me to
sleep to see if they could get
clear margins, which
they still could not get.
I told them, you
cannot do a mastectomy,
which they recommended.
And I said I was not going
to do chemo or radiation.
Well, the interesting thing
is both of my surgeons
were personal friends.
One was from-- that
I knew in college.
And the other one was a resident
with me at UC San Francisco.
And they thought I had
lost my mind, because I
said I'm not doing chemo,
I'm not doing radiation.
And they said, why not?
And I said, well,
chemotherapy is poison.
And I said, you and
I were both taught
that chemotherapy causes cancer.
I said, every doctor knows that.
The patients don't know that.
The patients are all
surprised when I say,
chemotherapy causes cancer.
And they'd say, my
doctor wouldn't give me
something that causes cancer
when I already have cancer.
And I say, yes, they
would, because they
don't know what else to do.
But by that time,
I had found out
that there was another
way to get well.
And I had found that
out because people
had written to me,
showing me that there
was a huge cover-up
in cancer cures.
And I was quite shocked.
And I investigated
the information.
And in fact, I had
had my own radio show
called "Truth Serum,"
where I was interviewing
alternative doctors at
the time that I found out
I myself had cancer.
I didn't know exactly what
to do at the beginning.
But I did know that I had to
change my diet to a totally
vegan diet, because during
the time I had my radio show,
I had been going around the
country interviewing people
I had heard had gotten well by
natural methods from cancer.
This was before I
knew I had cancer.
And so one thing that
all of them had done
was change to a totally
vegan vegetarian diet, which
means no animal products, no
meat, poultry, fish, dairy,
eggs, anything like that.
Again, the lump was small,
very small, at first.
But obviously, it
wasn't all removed,
because I did not
have clear margins.
So I changed my diet to
a totally vegan diet.
That was the right diet.
But it's not enough to get you
well from any major disease.
>>Now, did the growth
continue at this point?
>>No.
Nothing happened for
about nine months.
And then the tumor returned
right in the same place.
And on my website, I
show those pictures.
>>It was huge.
>>Well, it only-- about
nine months later,
it just regrew to
the size of a marble.
>>Right.
I was just referring
to the pictures
on your site of what
ultimately happened.
Yes.
>>Right.
But I knew that I
was in trouble when
it returned, because I was doing
everything I knew how to do,
which was just changing my diet.
It's the right diet.
But it's not enough by itself
to get you well from disease.
So I then started
searching around.
And I tried over 40 different
types of alternative medicines.
I tried the macrobiotic diet.
I tried 714-X, the
Rife generator,
and many, many other
kinds-- long enough
to find out if they would work.
And it didn't change.
The tumor didn't
go down in size.
Then, about nine months
after that, suddenly,
over a three-week
period of time,
the tumor grew from
the size of a marble
to the size of a
large grapefruit
that you see on my website.
And at first, it wasn't
terribly painful.
But over the next
few weeks to months,
it became terribly,
terribly painful.
And I knew I was in
serious trouble, because I
didn't know what to do.
And I'd tried all of
these alternatives.
I tried over 40.
And none of them worked.
So I then-- I had started
studying the Bible.
And let me say
right off the bat,
I'm not into organized religion.
And I believe that
Christianity is not a religion.
It's a personal relationship
with Jesus Christ.
And I had been an agnostic for
virtually all of my adult life.
But at this point,
I knew everything
every other doctor knew.
And I knew that regular
medicine could not get me well.
Again, I refused chemo.
I refused radiation.
I wouldn't get involved
with any of those.
And I knew that a
mastectomy wouldn't help me,
because I didn't
get breast cancer
because I had too many breasts.
Cutting organs off or out
does not solve the problem.
If you keep on doing
what you've always done,
you'll keep on being
what you've always been.
So something had to change.
But I didn't understand
what I needed to change.
Now, the human body is
meant to heal itself.
If you get a cut, it will
heal, unless you have destroyed
your immune system so
much with the way you live
or chemotherapy or
anything else like that
or if you dig it open every
day or if you put dirt in it.
But you have to do
something traumatic
to the cut on your hand
to keep it from healing.
The body is meant to heal.
I just had to find
out the things
that I was doing to
my body that caused it
not to heal or to find out
the situation I was in.
I gave myself cancer.
I didn't know I was doing it.
>>Talk about how that--
>>That's right.
I gave myself cancer.
Everybody gives themself cancer.
And people don't
like to admit that.
But it's like
being an alcoholic.
You can't get well
from alcoholism
unless you admit publicly
you did this to yourself.
And people have a very
difficult time doing that.
And they don't realize that
the very things that they
do every day are the
things that cause
cancer and Parkinson's
and all that.
Now, disease is a
spiritual problem.
It starts in your heart,
because you want to eat and live
the way you want to eat and
live rather than the way God
has designed us to eat and live.
I had to learn that.
And I started
studying the Bible.
I was not healed miraculously.
I was healed the way
anybody else can be healed.
It was a long, hard struggle
and a very regimented plan.
And it took 18 months
for me to get well.
For two years, I was getting
worse and worse and worse.
And people say, well, how
did you follow your progress?
Well, I followed my
progress by getting
worse and worse and worse.
But I still would not go to
the conventional doctors,
because I had seen too
many thousands of patients
die from the treatment
we give them.
Chemotherapy is poison.
It causes cancer.
Every doctor knows that.
Radiation-- doctors will tell
you, don't get too many x-rays.
X-rays cause cancer.
But when you have
cancer, then they
say, we have to give
you huge doses of what
we told you to avoid,
because it causes cancer.
Well, it's because doctors
don't know how to treat cancer.
We're never taught, because
the pharmaceutical industries
control much of what is
taught in medical school,
because they give the majority
of funding for research.
And they only teach
surgery and drugs.
>>And we're going to talk about
that whole cancer industry
also in a minute.
>>Right.
>>So continuing your story,
you got worse for two years.
>>So I got worse for
two years until I
was bedridden for six months.
At one point, I was not expected
to live through the night.
And my husband at
the time said, I've
got to take you to the hospital.
I said, I'm not going, because
I knew that, if I went,
they would give me drugs.
And I had so little life
left in me that I would die.
So I did pray to the Lord.
And I said, this is
not working so well.
I don't know how to do this.
And God has promised
in Psalms 103:3
that he heals all our diseases.
But he does tell us
how he does this.
In Deuteronomy, Chapter 7,
versus 11 to 15, he said,
"If you obey my laws"-- that
includes his health laws--
"my commandments,
and my decrees,
I will keep you free
from every disease."
So I prayed, and I
said, you're going
to have to show me how to
do this, because I'm dying.
But I'm not going to go do that,
because I know that's wrong.
And I'm not going to do
conventional medicine.
So God impressed on my mind a
way to stay alive during that
night.
And I discuss that on
my video "Cancer Doesn't
Scare Me Anymore" how I
actually stayed alive,
because I hadn't been able to
eat anything for two weeks,
and I hadn't been able to
drink anything for three days.
And my lungs were
filling up with fluid.
I was having great
difficulty breathing.
And since I'm a
trauma surgeon, I
know what people look
like when they're dying.
And I knew that I was dying.
But I held true.
And I said, I'm not
going to do it man's way.
I'm going to do it God's way.
And the way I got well was with
all things that are natural,
the things that God has created
in their most natural form.
And it's all free,
except for food.
And you have to
buy that, anyway.
And that's the way
God would do it.
He would make it
so everybody has
access to the way to get well.
But you see, what
man has done is
he has taken over medicine,
which we'll talk about later,
and made it into a very
expensive thing and said,
in order for you to get well,
you've got to come to us
and pay big money.
That's what humanity has
also done with religion.
You want to get saved,
you've got to come to us.
We're going to make an
industry out of religion.
You come, and you pay money.
And God says, it's a personal
relationship with me.
You just come to me.
You don't need an organization.
He showed me how to stay
alive over the next few days.
And I had some knowledge
of some of the things
that I needed to do by
that time, such as I
stayed on the same diet.
The diet was not a juice diet.
I drank a lot of juices,
13 fresh homemade vegetable
juices, 12 vegetable juices
and one fruit juice, every day
in between meals.
I ate all natural food,
three meals a day.
Because people
are always saying,
well, you went on a juice diet.
No, I did not.
The juice is to get huge
amounts of nutrition
into you in a form
where your body doesn't
have to spend
energy digesting it.
But I got my fiber
and all from eating
three regular meals a day.
>>And you were
able to eat again.
>>Yes.
After several days, after I
went through this crisis period,
I was able to start drinking
first and then eating.
And then I realized-- I
searched not only the Bible.
I went to the Bible to see what
was the original diet given
in the Garden of Eden, which was
a totally natural vegan diet.
So I started on that diet.
And then I started searching
the medical literature,
finding all the things
that we doctors are never
told in medical school,
such as cancerous tumors
grow twice as fast
if you're breathing
indoor air as outdoor air.
And that is well documented
in the medical literature.
So I spent a lot
of time outdoors.
I found out that
sunlight reduces
the size of internal
cancerous tumors
and does not cause skin cancer.
And I explain that on my videos.
It does not cause skin cancer.
It is the way we're eating
that causes skin cancer,
because skin cancer was not a
problem for thousands of years.
Our ancestors lived outdoors
and worked outdoors,
and they didn't get skin cancer.
It's a new phenomenon.
And what has happened
is, from 1908,
where the-- 1909, I
guess, the statistics
showed that 1 out
of 33 Americans
had cancer-- 1 out of 33.
And at that time,
the average American
was eating 200 pounds
of grains a year
and 200 pounds of
fresh potatoes,
not fast food French fries.
>>Right.
>>And so they were eating
mainly a plant-based diet.
By 1985, the incidence of
grain eating had gone in half.
And the incidence of
natural potato eating
had decreased by 50%.
The incidence of meat
eating had doubled,
the incidence of milk
drinking had doubled,
and the incidence of chicken
eating had gone up 300%.
And now the incidence
of cancer was 1 out
of 3 instead of 1 out of 33.
>>Right.
>>So as we changed from a
plant-based diet, mainly,
to an animal product--
>>And refined.
>>--based diet-- and refined
and sugar and all of that,
then the incidence of
cancer went up dramatically.
And now it's 1 out of 2.
And it's predicted
that, by the year 2020,
everybody in their lifetime
will develop cancer.
So anybody watching
this, right now,
it's either you or
the person standing
next to you who's
going to get cancer.
So you'd better listen up.
So anyway, I found out
this about outdoor air.
And I explain why this
happens on my videos.
I explain why the
outdoor air is so much
better than the indoor air.
Even if you're living in an area
that does not have great air,
outside air is still
better than inside air.
And then I got rid of all the
sugar and caffeine and all
of the MSG and NutraSweet and
all of these damaging things
that are in the diet.
And I ate only food in its
natural form, which I still do.
And I also realized
that you have
to have peace in your life.
And as I said, it
starts in the heart.
And you have to learn
to forgive everyone
who's ever wronged you.
They've done studies
at Stanford showing
the enormous significance
of forgiveness
and how it changes your
vital signs, your heart
rate, your blood pressure, your
adrenalin production, and all
of that, when you harbor grudges
or you're angry at someone.
And so you cannot get well
from mental illness or physical
illness if you're holding
onto grudges or you're angry.
In fact, the medical
literature shows
that 50% of all
heart attacks occur
after an episode of anger.
And so if you don't
get rid of that anger,
you cannot get well.
And I had been through a lot
of difficult things in my life.
I had been through a divorce
that was very unpleasant
and the custody battle
for my children.
And if you knew
the circumstances,
you would know I had a real
reason, in human terms,
to be angry.
But I had to let it go.
And unless you let it
go, you cannot get well.
So we've got proper nutrition.
Exercise is extremely important.
But when I was sick, I
couldn't exercise at all.
I could barely get out of
bed to go to the bathroom.
But as I started to get well,
then I started taking walks.
The first walk was
only about 20 yards.
And I thought I'd
really done something,
because I had been so emaciated
and bedridden for so long.
And then I started
exercising more and more.
But even after I got well
and I could work a full day
and I had energy, it took
three years after that
before I got enough strength
that I could go to the gym,
because I could do a
few exercises at home,
but they would
wear me out a lot.
And it took three years
before I was strong enough
to get up off the bench without
rolling over onto the floor
and pushing myself
up with my hands.
So it's a long, hard struggle.
And it took me 18 months after
I got this whole 10-step plan
together.
The plan is proper
nutrition, exercise-- water
is extremely important.
The body is 75% water,
the brain is 85% water.
And it's not 85% Coke or
Pepsi or any of those things,
not milk.
It's water.
And we lose 10 glasses of
water every day just by living.
And if we don't
replace those or if we
drink caffeine or caffeinated
soda or alcohol or any
of those things that
dehydrate our body,
we will lose even more water.
You can't do that.
And so I started drinking
huge amounts of water.
And when I did, things
started changing,
because I had symptoms
of many other diseases
when I had cancer.
I had symptoms of Parkinson's.
I developed the pill-rolling
tremor of Parkinson's.
I had severe numbness in my left
leg, like multiple sclerosis.
I developed Renaud's phenomenon,
where the fingertips,
they weren't getting
enough blood.
And I had horrible
anxiety and depression.
And it wasn't just
because I had cancer.
It was because the same
things-- I realized
that all of these
things were caused
by the same lack of these 10
steps, which caused cancer.
When I started doing the
plan, within eight months,
all of my cancer was gone.
So we have nutrition, exercise,
water, sunlight, temperance,
which is elimination
of all of these things
that are in your diet and
that you want to get rid of,
and then rest-- the proper rest
at the proper time of night--
because the healing
hormones are produced
between 10:00 PM and 2
o'clock in the morning.
But you have to be asleep.
And so people think, well,
I can go to bed at 12:00
and get up at 8:00.
No.
We are meant, really, to
start slowing down and going
to bed when the sun goes down.
We are meant to do that.
And if we disobey
these rules-- you see,
there are rules of this Earth,
such as the law of gravity.
And if you resist the law of
gravity, the law of gravity
is still working whether
you like it or not.
And if you jump off
of a high building,
you're going to go down.
I don't care whether you
don't like it or not.
If you resist these 10
natural health laws,
you're going to get sick.
If you live within
them, you will be well.
So we've got proper rest at
the proper time of night.
The first eight are the
acronym NEW START-- nutrition,
exercise, water, sunlight,
temperance, fresh air,
proper rest at the proper
time of night, trust in God.
I realized that there was--
we don't have within us--
and I know there are
others who disagree--
we don't have within us
the ability to get well.
Certainly, the better you
eat and the better you live,
the healthier you will be.
But if people don't have
an external standard,
and if they do not trust
in God, eventually we
will run into things in
life that are too big for us
and that we will go down.
And so I started
studying the Bible,
learning to trust God and
really give my troubles to him.
And then the last two steps
are an attitude of gratitude.
You have to be thankful
for what you've got.
And when I was bedridden
and when I was so sick
and I was in so
much pain, I just
thanked the Lord
that I was alive
and that I had the
possibility of getting well,
even though I didn't know
how, as long as I was alive.
And then the last
one is benevolence.
You have to get outside
yourself and help other people.
Now, when I was bedridden, I
couldn't help anybody else.
But I could pray for others
and quit praying just
for my own self to get well
and pray for other people.
And so when you get
outside of yourself
and you stop
focusing only on you,
that is a necessary
part of getting well,
because everything
starts in the heart.
The actions that you take
have to start in your mind
and in your heart.
And if you want to
live your own way
and defy all these
laws of natural health,
you will eventually get sick.
When you're younger, you
may be able to put up
with it for a while.
But eventually, as you get
older, you will get sick.
So those are the basic steps.
And you will notice that they're
all free, except for food.
And if we grew our own food,
as we were meant to do,
that would be free, too.
And so this plan is available
to everybody in the world.
But you have to do it.
It doesn't work if you just
know about it and don't do it.
It's a plan that is
simple, but it is not easy,
because people do
not want to change
the way they're
living and eating.
And I have had friends who have
told me that they would rather
eat their hot fudge
sundaes or their hamburgers
and die than to give
them up and stay alive.
And you know, that's
everybody's right.
>>And it's not just
life and death.
It's quality of life.
>>That's right.
That's right.
>>I mean, you have
many, many years
on the decline in that context
of eating poorly and so forth.
>>That's right.
But people say, well, I don't
want to live a long time anyway
in ill health.
Well, you can live a
long time and be healthy.
That's the good news.
>>Exactly.
>>And that's what I told you.
Today is my birthday.
I'm 69 years old today.
>>I was just going to
say, can we mention that?
I mean, you're unbelievable.
>>And I can do everything I
did when I was 25 years old.
And recently, I
told someone that I
have the same energy
that I had at 25.
And they were my age.
And they said, oh, come
on, that's really--
and my husband said,
no, she's right.
She has the same energy that
she had when she was 25.
And I recently was remarried.
And my husband wanted to
eat and live like I did,
because he said, I want to
have that kind of energy.
And so it does work.
You can be healthy.
I know people who are over 100
who eat and live like I do.
And they were just featured
in a big, national news piece,
because one woman is 101.
She does eight miles on an
exercise bicycle every day.
She volunteers at
the local hospital.
And she does all
of these things.
And she's totally well.
She still drives her own car.
And it doesn't matter how
old you are if you feel well.
And the tragedy is
everybody can feel well
if they're just
willing to do it.
But we become so
addicted to food
and so addicted to our lifestyle
and so addicted to anger.
People enjoy being angry.
They have a real
feast of being angry.
But they don't realize that
the skeleton at the feast
is them, because you eat
yourself up when you're angry.
>>And that's what cancer does.
>>That's right.
And so cancer is caused by the
way we eat and the way we live.
People go-- I look in
their shopping carts,
and I realize they're
putting cancer in there
when they go home
and they eat it.
And they give themselves cancer.
But again, it's not just
what you put in your mouth.
It's what you put in
your mind, as well.
When I was getting well, I
didn't read the newspapers.
I didn't listen to the radio.
I didn't watch
television except for
high-quality spiritual programs.
I only read the
Book-- the Bible,
and high-quality
religious books.
And I only listened
to classical music
and high-quality
religious music, not
the music that's played in most
churches, which is ditties,
almost, now.
And so you have
to be very careful
what you put in your
mind, as well as
what you put in your mouth,
when you're getting well.
And then you find out that you
change your lifestyle so much,
you have no interest in
any of that other, as well.
>>And what is the natural
age span of a human being?
>>Well, they say that
it's, like, 70 years old.
People talk about,
well, look, we're
living longer than
we ever have before.
No.
That is a lie of statistics.
If a person got past the
childhood diseases that
were rampant because of
bad sanitation and all
that in the early 1900s,
if they got past those,
their life expectancy was just
as long as it is now or longer.
But with all these
people dying of cancer
they're juggling the
statistics to make
you think that
we're living longer.
We're not living longer.
They're lying.
But they would like
you to think that,
because they want you
to still contribute
to the funding of medicine.
>>But let's say you're
raised in a healthy manner,
because you have
conscious parents.
And you basically are
living by these natural laws
your entire life.
Theoretically, shouldn't
the human being
extend at least to
100 years of age?
Shouldn't that be our
natural life span and beyond?
>>Oh, yes.
That should be our natural
life span, at least.
In fact, we were originally
designed to live forever.
But as people started
living their own way,
rather than God's way, the
life expectancy went way down.
And now, we certainly are
meant to live at least
to be 100 and be healthy.
>>Right.
>>And if people just would
take care of their bodies.
Except, when you talk about
people living healthfully,
there are some people
who live healthfully.
But the idea of health,
generally, in America
is you read labels.
Well, I don't read labels.
I don't buy anything
with a label on it.
>>Exactly.
>>And now the people say,
well, the soil is so deficient,
so I've got to take all of
these man-made supplements.
Well, the way you
overcome that is you
eat organic food so you
don't have pesticides on it.
It's grown in healthier soil.
And you can overcome
it in two major ways.
Number one, drink a lot of
homemade fresh vegetable
juice in between meals,
because that will give you
huge amounts of nutrients.
And the other is to sprout
your beans, seeds, and grains,
rather than cook them.
And that will increase
their nutritional value up
to 600% over cooked.
>>Yes.
And that's part of what the
raw food movement right now
is about.
>>Raw food movement.
The more raw food you can
eat, the better off you are.
And I did not get
well 100 years ago,
when the soil was
better than it is now.
I got well in the last 15 years.
>>Right.
>>I was supposed to die in 1995.
>>Yeah.
>>That's when I was
so terribly sick.
>>Just amazing.
>>And I am so healthy.
And people say, well, how do
you know you're cancer free?
Well, first of all, I had
a great big thing there.
And even though I had a
portion of it debulked,
they left most of it in.
It was just for pain relief.
And they sent me home to die.
And now I've got a great
big depression right here.
In fact, you can feel where
all of the soft tissue
was pushed away by the tumor.
And I've got a big depression.
I've got nothing there.
There's nothing there.
Besides that, how do you know
when you're over the flu?
Because you don't
feel sick anymore.
>>You feel better.
>>People say, well, how
do you know you're well?
I was so terribly sick.
I was so terribly
sick, and now I'm not.
But most people, when they
have a tumor that size,
they go and have it removed.
So then how do you
follow your progress?
You see?
You don't know if
what you're doing
is working if you've
had the tumor removed.
You need the tumor there to
show you, is it receding?
But doctors tell patients,
you can't do it that way.
We have to cut it out.
But the reason that
people have recurrences
is that they first of all have
chemotherapy and radiation,
which destroys
your immune system.
You need your immune
system to get you well.
And when you have it destroyed
with the chemo and radiation,
yes, it will destroy
the tumor for a time.
But it also destroys
your immune system.
And so then, the tumor
will always come back.
It will always come back.
If you have enough immune
system left to fight it,
you may survive for
some period of time
or maybe for a long time.
But most people, or many
people, their immune systems
are so destroyed
by the treatment
that, when the tumor
comes back, they
have nothing left
to fight it with.
Or they give them more
chemo and more radiation.
And then that kills them.
I've watched that happen
to so many people,
including friends of mine who
were too afraid to do what
I did, because they wanted
to believe the white coats.
>>And you are a white coat.
>>I am a white coat.
And I know that white coats
don't know how to do this.
They say they do.
But that's because
we're taught that.
Doctors fear cancer
more than non-doctors,
because the lay person
believes that they
can go to their doctor, and
their doctor can fix it.
The doctor knows
they can't fix it.
And doctors talk among
themselves about,
are we going to kill
the patient first,
or are we going
to kill the tumor?
But you see, you can't
just really kill a tumor.
The body, as I said earlier,
is meant to heal itself.
What we have to do
is stop injuring it.
And we injure it by the way
we eat, the way we live.
This is all kind of trauma.
If you took a hammer and
hit your thumb every day,
you'd make it into a hamburger.
And it wouldn't get well if
you kept hitting it every day.
You've got to stop
doing the things that
cause the injury to the body.
And the problem is that
most people don't know.
And certainly, the
doctors don't know.
We're never taught that.
Doctors have a shorter
life expectancy
than the general population.
And they have a
higher suicide rate.
So why would you want to
go to them for your health?
>>And that brings up a whole
different line of questioning.
But I want to get back for
just a moment to the barley
greens and also the beet
powder and how you utilize this
and what the value--
because green is everywhere.
There are 1,000 green
powders out there right now.
>>Well, there are a thousand
green powders out there.
I tried a number of them.
I found that, first of all, the
barley, the young barley plant,
is one of the most nutritious
foods in the world.
And I went with a
brand that had actually
been developed 25 years
ago, where they blow it dry,
and it's not heated.
And it has a good consistency.
And it tasted good.
And I would put it
in my carrot juice.
You can put it in
any kind of juice.
And all it is is food.
It's not anything special.
It's not a panacea.
It's not a quick fix.
It's food.
But it is in a
concentrated form.
And when you do put it in your
juice or something like that,
it gives you the equivalent
of several servings
of a very nutritious green
vegetable by doing it that way.
So I used it as an adjunct.
You don't have to
use it to get well.
Beets are very nutritious.
And so you can use
some beet powder.
You have to use it sparingly,
because it's very cleansing.
And people have to use it
very sparingly to do it.
But I didn't use that, because
it wasn't available to me
when I was getting well.
But I would use the fresh
juice, the fresh carrot juice
and fresh green leafy
vegetable juice.
And those recipes
are in my workbook
called "Getting Started
on Getting Well,"
which is an adjunct
to my videos.
So, I have a nine-video
set on how to get well.
And you can start out
with "Cancer Doesn't
Scare Me Anymore" and "You
Can't Improve on God."
The video "You Can't
Improve on God"
tells the exact plan
I used to get well.
Again, that is free.
And people say, oh, you know--
sometimes people accused me,
you just want to make money.
The video is $19.95.
>>Right.
These are not
exorbitant in price.
>>No. $19.95.
>>Nothing like chemotherapy,
radiation, et cetera.
>>That's right.
My brother died of
cancer, because he
refused to do
anything that I did,
because I was his little sister.
So he went to the doctors.
And they eventually killed
him with chemotherapy.
And there were some
chemotherapy drugs
that he was taking that
cost $3,000 a treatment.
And they weren't covered.
They were experimental,
so they weren't
covered by his insurance.
For $19.95, if a person
just got one video,
"You Can't Improve
on God," and followed
that, they and
their family could
be well for the rest of
their lives for under $20.
But somehow, they think,
if it's inexpensive,
it can't possibly work.
Well, the whole
plan is inexpensive.
I never went to a
doctor, ever, when
I was going through my illness,
except for my biopsies.
And I had a
debulking, which means
they took out just a
portion of the tumor
just to give me some pain
relief to send me home to die.
That's the only things I had.
I never went to a
doctor regularly,
because there's not
one single doctor who
even claims to have
created a body.
I went to the great
physician who is God,
and I asked him to show
me how to get well,
because I knew he knew
what was wrong with my body
and what I needed
to do to get well.
And he is available
to every individual.
You don't have to go someplace.
In fact, people will
write to me and say,
I need a doctor who is
a specialist in, say,
pancreatic cancer
who is in my area.
And I say, I've got
just the one for you.
I talked to him this morning.
He'll take care of you for free.
And he's available
to you all the time.
And that's the Lord.
>>Well, now, going
away from that
plan to a health
insurance type of plan,
a whole different kind of plan.
What you're talking
about really eliminates
a large need for some of the
HMO type health insurance
that's out there, because
so often, people think,
oh, my god, I have to
pay my $400 a month.
What if I get cancer?
Or what if I got something else?
>>The only reason anybody
needs any insurance-- in fact,
I would eliminate insurance.
The doctor bills would go
way down if people-- there
was no middle man.
And their whole
insurance industry
was set up as, really, a
sinister, clandestine plan
to put a middleman in
between so people would not
care as much at
how much it cost.
And so if people
just paid for it,
they would take better
care of their bodies,
because they would
realize, I don't
want to pay somebody to do this.
The only reason anybody would
need any kind of insurance
is for trauma.
If you get run over
by a truck, you
need someone like me, who's
a trauma orthopedic surgeon,
to put you back together.
I'm not suggesting you can drink
carrot juice and have your--
>>Your leg set.
>>--leg straightened out.
Right.
But in fact, there
are three things
that doctors are necessary for.
Number one is trauma.
Number two is
reconstruction, such
if a child is born with a cleft
palate or something like that.
Then that is an
important thing to do.
And then if someone
has-- well, now,
if people would eat
right and live right,
they wouldn't develop arthritis.
But if they have
severe arthritis,
reconstructive surgery for
a total hip or total knee
is fine.
But that isn't the way
we were designed to be.
We were designed for our joints
to last all of our lives.
But if people haven't been
eating right and living right,
and they change, but
still, they're older.
So those are about
the only things
that you would need a surgeon.
You don't need to
take organs out.
People have part
of their liver out
and part of this out and part
of that out, their stomach.
Well, that's not
the way to do it.
Those things can all be healed.
And transplants of organs
are really very dangerous.
They were not designed to be
available for human beings
because, in order for you
to get an organ, a kidney
or liver or anything
else from another person,
before you get that, you have
to have your immune system wiped
out, because the immune
system was built,
created in us by God, to resist
organs from another person.
And so in order for
you to accept one,
you've got to have
all this chemotherapy.
Now, they call it
immunosuppressive therapy.
It suppresses the immune system.
It is exactly the same
drugs as chemotherapy.
And these people
have to be on them
for the rest of their lives.
So eventually, frequently,
they will die of cancer,
because they've been
taking chemotherapy
all along to suppress the body's
natural immune system to reject
that organ.
So it's a very dangerous thing.
And I would encourage people,
why don't you heal your body,
heal your kidney,
heal your liver.
You can do that.
We're designed to heal.
And people don't want
to do, unfortunately,
what is necessary.
But it's so much better life.
I don't have any arthritis.
I don't take any pills.
I don't have any
fatigue syndrome.
And here I am getting
close to 70 years old,
and I'm just as healthy
as I was when I was 25.
So why not live that way?
It's worth it.
>>You can see all of Dr.
Day's incredible story
and materials on healing
by going to her website
at drday.com.
I hope this has given anyone
who has an illness in their life
who is watching this interview
some inspiration to take
your healing into your
own hands in partnership
with whichever beliefs
work best for you.
Until next time,
thanks for watching.
>>[MUSIC PLAYING]